Where better to hide from us
than in the past?
It'd be better to look
for the Book of Life.
Firstly, Diana is in need of a teacher.
A witch.
Between us we can
find someone discreet.
Sophie?
You can keep your money.
I will have no part of this.
And the other matter?
We need to locate a lost book.
An alchemical manuscript.
It has details of the origins
of the three creatures.
-If it exists.
-It exists.
I can't believe Christopher
Marlowe is a demon.
A witch. If you spoke civilly to one,
I'd be concerned. But, married?
You must see,
I need your help.
It's power like yours, that's why
they're hunting us in Scotland.
It's why even here we have no peace
from men like your husband.
My father needed a spy
in the English court.
I fulfilled that need
and I did it very well.
Who do you answer to?
William Cecil?
Lord Burghley, yes.
We shall see how this chaos
of yours plays out.
Your methods of persuasion
have been sorely missed.
Being back here,
wearing the cloak of his old self...
Changed. Do not, for one moment,
assume you know him.
Knox will find us here.
I can feel it.
I knew the coven will
not tell Knox anything.
Mary Johnson always hated me.
I bet she snitched right away.
None of them even know
where Diana and Matthew have gone.
Yeah, and they could be
dead for all we know.
This page is connected to Diana.
It must have answers for us.
That book started
this whole nightmare.
Don't you want to know why?
They're dining with us tonight?
You can't avoid
each other forever.
I believe we all prefer it that way.
I'm tolerating him under my roof
and affording him my protection.
We don't need to play happy families.
Matthew would want you
to make them feel at home.
If he has evolved,
then so can we.
Are the witches
turning against Her Majesty?
No. They're loyal.
Give me the names of your conspirators,
Master Caldwell.
I... I...
I have none.
Make him talk.
Mummo.
You returned at last.
You have suffered, Satu.
Your ancestors didn't survive
amongst others either.
You taught me everything...
...but not who I am.
-Why?
-To protect you.
That's why I raised you here.
I don't want protection.
I want to learn.
-I want to understand.
-Then stay.
Become the weaver
you were born to be.
I'm in a city full of witches.
And I still can't find a teacher.
Have patience.
Master Roydon is resourceful.
It should be a matter
between witches, Francoise.
We need to do
things differently.
Find someone
willing to help me.
They can't be
coerced or bribed.
Difficult.
Mistress Norman may have
talked to others of the...
...fruit incident.
I wonder if Mary knows
of any witches?
-You will enjoy Mary's company.
-Is she a human?
A trusted one. Her late brother
was a close friend.
She practices alchemy.
Fascinating woman.
Though prone to
setting things alight.
-Mary Sidney.
-We'll pay her a visit.
Hal's right,
she could be a useful ally.
Meeting my heroes hasn't been
a wild success so far.
Mary Sidney is nothing like Kit.
Mary?
Matthew!
I understand you are a
fellow student of alchemy.
I am more
an enthusiastic reader.
Diana is being far too modest.
She's an accomplished scholar, Mary.
You could assist me.
If your duties at home permit.
So many things get
in the way of study.
Oh, I couldn't agree more.
Still, you and I have an
easier time than most women do.
We have our books and the leisure
to indulge our passions, thank God.
We women own nothing...
...save what lies
between our ears.
Oh, no.
How on earth? Quickly!
Oh. Must've slithered
in from the garden.
Yes, that'll be it.
What a nuisance.
-I don't know how I...
-It's all right. Mary.
We are in need of a witch.
As you can see, it's quite urgent.
I know no witches.
I learned what you are
from my brother as a child.
I understood it to be a fable.
That is how I would like to keep it.
You would deny the truth
of creatures like Diana and I?
-We will trouble you no further.
-Why can't we go on as before?
Because I love Diana and
want to see her secure.
I... I cannot help
you with a witch.
But I gladly offer
you my friendship.
And I mine.
A word of caution, Diana.
No one in London should be trusted
with knowledge of you.
What is happening in Scotland
is making people fearful.
Her Majesty is satisfied
with the events in Scotland?
The distractions facing
King James pleases her.
Good.
I am glad to hear it.
There was an omission, however,
in your statement.
The imprisonment
of Agnes Sampson.
One witch is much
like any other.
I didn't feel the need to
specify any of their names.
One cannot forget your
disdain for witches.
Still, torture of their
leader poses a risk.
English witches may turn
against Her Majesty.
Side with their people
in the north.
England's witches assisted
in repelling the Armada.
Surely their loyalty
is above suspicion?
No one is above suspicion.
And, now,
disturbing news from Garlickhythe.
A minister questioned
one of his parishioners
about suspected witchcraft.
Shortly after, he fell ill.
This does not appear
to be a matter for us.
This witch, Thomas Caldwell,
made threats against the Crown
during his questioning.
It is against our covenant
to meddle in human affairs.
And, yet, here you are, Roydon,
working for us.
Her Majesty has never shown
displeasure with my service.
You are greatly depended on, of course.
Question this Tom Caldwell at the Tower.
Find out what the
witches are plotting.
Extract a confession
by any means necessary.
Yes, My Lord.
Master Roydon.
Welcome back to London.
I suggest you stay where you are.
What do you want?
I've a message
from Father Hubbard.
Ah.
-Well, deliver it.
-He wants to see you.
You can tell Hubbard I'll visit
when it's convenient.
You'll visit tonight.
Before the clock tolls 7:00.
Bring your witch.
Send for Kit.
Tell him a summons came.
From Father Hubbard.
-At once, Master Roydon.
-Diana?
Andrew Hubbard
is a vampire
who rules over
the city of London.
How did the city become his?
Well... The Black Death
arrived in 1348.
If you weren't already dead,
you were trying to flee the city.
Except for one man,
a priest named Father
Hubbard. Now...
He cared for the sick until he finally
succumbed to the illness.
At which point,
he dug himself a grave
and climbed in
"to wait for God."
When he climbed out again,
he prophesied divine resurrection.
-Someone made him a vampire.
-No one claimed to.
So, the creatures
believed his story
and, from then until now, he gathers up
and helps the lost souls of the city.
-That sounds noble.
-Hubbard controls them too.
Or at least tries to.
Under no circumstances are you
to let him taste your blood.
Why would I?
Because it's part of
his ritual of adoption.
He believes that it reveals
the content of their souls.
-But reveals their secrets too?
-Yes.
Promise me.
Yes. Matthew,
why didn't you tell me this?
There is a treaty between Hubbard
and the De Clermont family.
He stays out of our way,
and we stay out of his.
But I fall outside your diplomatic
immunity, is that it?
It's one of the perils
of being a timespinner.
You know the future,
but forget the past.
You would better re-inhabit
your old life, my friend.
Before you
get yourself killed.
Father, I give
my blood willingly,
that God may know
my heart.
I accept your gift
and vow to protect you as my child.
God bless you.
Now, greet your kin.
You're late.
We have a problem.
We have several.
You have your hands upon someone
who doesn't belong to you.
And if you don't step back,
I'll tear this day to pieces...
Hubbard.
Leave us.
Monsieur de Clermont,
I permit your presence because
of my treaty with
your father, Philippe.
But you flout our customs.
Allow this witch to roam.
Then there's the marks.
Relationship between a witch
and a wearh is sin enough.
But this...
If the witches find you
took blood without consent,
you will be put to death.
If she gave it willingly,
then she will be
cast out of England.
Oh, fear not.
Once you are family,
I will protect you.
I do not answer to
you, nor does Diana.
Tell your flock
she belongs to you,
if it brings you comfort,
but you won't
have her blood.
Then we are at an impasse.
-I fed Matthew willingly, Father.
-Diana.
Carry on.
Matthew was dying.
I forced him to take my blood
in order to save his life.
And...
He did so unwillingly?
It was my decision.
And I would make it again.
Yes...
God accepts
your act of mercy.
But know this,
nothing happens in London
without my blessing.
God is watching you both.
Diana.
-I was buying us time.
-That was reckless.
But...
...also brilliant.
Let's get you home.
-Amen.
Is God listening?
I never know.
Do you know,
in all the madness of the arrival,
I missed All Soul's Day.
Let us have fun.
You've forgotten the other side
of Matthew Roydon.
Let me guess.
You still require a loan.
I need to talk to her.
Alone.
Mistress Norman.
Please...
It was wrong to force
you to our home.
But I need you.
I invite you to come.
Master Roydon is out.
Get the contents of this egg
into that bowl without
using your hands.
I... I...
Can we do a different one?
I don't know that spell.
If your power is too weak,
then no witch can help you.
Magic is desire
made real.
I'll speak
to Goody Alsop.
She's your
head of coven?
She is England's
most powerful witch.
-Yes.
-Please.
-Matthew?
-I give up ever so gracefully.
-Hm. It's just you and I.
-Indeed.
The shirt off his back.
-Voila.
-Fair bet.
-Very well.
-Oh, a raise.
A big raise.
I have nothing left.
-Your earring, if you please.
-Oh, Kit.
I mean, it's a thing of beauty.
Oh...
Fine hand!
Good hand, Kit.
-You are a cheater.
-I find that very offensive.
-Gift?
-I chose it especially.
How very thoughtful.
Good evening, gentlemen.
Oh, leave him his shirt, Kit.
Oh. See,
now you look like Matthew Roydon.
Hm.
Gentlemen.
Ah, Peckham.
Are you lost?
What news of Thomas
Caldwell's interrogation?
-It's ongoing.
-It has not begun.
And what does a Whitehall
clerk know of my methods?
I know you've not set foot in The Tower.
I'm allowing my prisoner time to fear.
The potent power of
the imagination, Peckham.
Do not test Lord Burghley's patience.
Do not test mine.
Thank you.
Tell me of your future life.
No, Kit, it isn't wise.
Do you still
write verse?
Not for 70 years or more.
-Read philosophy?
-More science though.
Science.
-Our chemical processes.
-As it evolves.
We have a greater understanding
of the physical and natural world.
So, what questions press you?
The same ones
that always have,
to know why I'm here.
And the future
hasn't answered?
I doubt if it ever will.
What about my work?
Is it still read?
You will not draw me
on your future, Kit.
That way madness lies.
Maddening visions are
a part of my nature.
No man should ever
know their fate.
And yet you know mine.
I must go.
To The Tower,
if you have sense.
Whatever you feel now
about witches,
do not ignore Cecil's orders.
-I'm coming for you.
-Get your coat.
Jack seems to be
settling in well.
Glad to hear it.
Hm.
Why do you have this?
A minister in London
questioned a witch,
a man named Thomas Caldwell.
I'm reading the testimonies.
He used the
Malleus Maleficarum.
Mm-hm.
These questions were used
to trap the innocent.
Thousands of people
were killed this way.
Fortunately, Cecil isn't
bloodthirsty on that score.
Why interrogate a creature
if he knows they exist?
The Queen fears that England's
witches will turn against her.
And unfortunately,
very unfortunately,
under duress, Thomas said some very
foolish things about the crown.
Treason.
But that's a death sentence.
Mm-hm.
Mary was right.
I know what you're thinking, Diana.
I wouldn't have brought you here
if witch hunts were going to break out.
Thank you.
It's 20 years before the
Lancashire hunts begin.
With reasoning like that,
it's a good thing you're a scientist
and not a historian.
Oh, so a historian knows better than
someone who's actually lived through it?
Of course. Look at what's
happening here.
The population is exploding.
Land is being cleared.
Harvest are bad.
Matthew, people are struggling.
So, you think people are looking
for scapegoats as we speak?
One minute we're friends
with our neighbors,
the next, we're running scared.
We will be long gone by the
time that happens, I promise.
Now, Diana, please, please, please,
for the love of God,
let me finish my reading.
Bye.
Thank you.
By the way, I found a teacher.
Stay outside, wearh.
It is Mistress Roydon
she wants to meet.
I'm not leaving Diana alone.
Let me have a look at you.
To keep out prying eyes.
A witch tried to see inside me.
This should not hurt.
I have waited a long time
for you, Diana.
The auguries foretold
your arrival a long time ago.
And with the portents in the north,
I knew to expect you now.
The witch hunts in Scotland.
They have imprisoned
Agnes Sampson.
The three of us are all
that is left of our kind.
"Our kind"?
I don't know what you mean.
You are a weaver.
A maker of spells.
With respect,
I think you're mistaken.
My Aunt Sarah is gifted. I am...
...terrible with spells.
Ask Susanna.
You must devise your own.
There are old stories of witches
with miraculous power.
I've lived a long time, Goody Alsop.
And I've never met one.
We are rare creatures,
Master Roydon.
We have been hunted down
and forced into hiding.
The witch that attacked me
was powerful.
She knew I was different.
Do you think Satu knew
you were a weaver?
I don't know. Maybe.
Sadly, the greatest
threat to our safety
is our own kind.
Envy and fear
are powerful forces.
My parents were
killed by witches.
-Maybe that's why.
-You cannot tell...
...but your father
was one.
He knew that you
would follow his path.
You sense his magic
inside me?
They are seldom men.
He was a self-taught
weaver, Susanna.
I can see the last threads
of his spellbinding...
...roughly woven together.
So...
...it was made with
love to protect you.
Will you teach me,
Goody Alsop?
It will attract
too much attention.
The Rede must be consulted.
If you inform the council of witches,
you will reveal Diana's identity,
and I cannot allow that.
Please sit down,
Master Roydon.
My neck no longer
bends that way.
Diana's presence
is already felt.
We established The Read
to protect our interests.
Their consent is necessary.
Then seek it at once.
Mistress Roydon,
make your case to The Read.
I was spellbound
and orphaned as a child.
Cut off from my essence as a witch.
Now that my
bindings are gone,
I am ready to learn
the full nature of my power.
I need a community
of witches to do that.
We take pity on you, Mistress.
To be spellbound
is a grave thing.
But another city may be a
better place to help you.
No.
No. I am meant to be here.
Mistress Norman,
you have concerns.
I, too, take pity
on Mistress Roydon,
but training her could threaten
the safety of our fellow witches.
How so, Mistress?
She is married to a wearh,
the known enemy of our people.
This is, sadly, true.
As we stand here today,
one of our own is locked in The Tower
with Master Roydon
as inquisitor.
Mistress Roydon's soul
is as clear to me as my own.
Forgive me, but it is not such
an easy matter, Goody Alsop.
If we are to help a witch who
has allied herself with a wearh
over her own people,
then we must be prepared
to make an enemy
of Father Hubbard.
My relationship is not a
rejection of my people.
Dark times are coming.
A witch has long been prophesied
to come to our aid.
Diana is that witch.
Forgive us, but how do we know
that that is true?
I'm a time spinner.
I have come from the future
in order to seek out
a special teacher.
I've seen The Book of Life
with my own eyes.
-The first grimoire?
-Yes.
I don't understand how my
magic is connected to it,
or my purpose once I've
come into my power.
But I do know this...
My relationship to my magic,
to Matthew Roydon
and to The Book of Life
are woven together.
One cannot
exclude the other.
The long awaited
weaver is among us.
This is not a test, Diana.
This is a welcome.
Fine day for an interrogation.
What do you want, Hubbard?
One of my children has been
caught up in Cecil's web.
Tom Caldwell.
Why should that
concern me?
He's innocent.
I think that's for the Crown to decide,
don't you?
The Queen's trusted shadow
can exert influence.
Any influence I may have
won't be spent protecting
your interests, I can assure you.
Good day.
There would be benefit
in our cooperating.
We have a great deal
in common, after all.
Both men of faith.
You're determined to protect Diana
and me, Tom.
Or should I ask Philippe
de Clermont for assistance?
This has nothing to do with him, Andrew.
Let us hope so.
Good day.
Tangled mess!
Hubbard expects me to
free Thomas Caldwell,
and Cecil, Cecil,
demands that I extract
a confession from him
and put him to death!
Contact Philippe.
It can influence the situation
in untold ways.
No. If my father finds
out about Diana,
then everything will become undone.
Everything!
Take my counsel.
Dampen Cecil's suspicions.
Your prisoner will
survive for how long?
Two weeks?
Three?
Matthew Roydon is
never cruel for sport.
Father Hubbard
pleaded your case.
But he is ruthlessly efficient.
Do not impersonate
Matthew Roydon.
Become him.
Master Roydon.
Yeah.
The Read will
allow me to train.
Tom?
He didn't suffer.
You killed him out of mercy.
If I was truly merciful,
currently, he would be rowing
himself down the Thames.
He was innocent.
There was no way,
no path where Tom survived
that I can
keep you safe.
He made no threat against me.
Correct.
We gather together
to mourn Thomas Caldwell,
beloved member
of our family.
We keep him in our hearts.
His life was cut short.
But our memories are long.
France, sir?
Put this into the hand of
Philippe de Clermont yourself.
Explain yourself.
The witch refused to cooperate
and became contemptuous.
I lost my temper.
You snapped his neck!
For which I beg
your forgiveness.
It is out of character.
Perhaps you have reason
to side with the traitor,
to support the witches.
My loyalty and devotion
to the Queen are steadfast.
Something I will
remind her of at once.
Her Majesty's in
no humor to see you.
I advise you to remember
the punishment for traitors,
human or creature.
It looked like
an uncontrolled feeding.
Multiple bite marks.
The body was torn apart.
I haven't seen anything
like that in centuries.
Her Majesty questions
the trust she long placed in
you, Master Roydon.
You look tired, Shadow,
marriage does not suit you.
A weaver selects
and shapes something new.
Just let the power
move through you.
You seek a specific text.
An old book of alchemy
in an unknown language.
Dr. Dee
does have such a book.
Acquired from
Emperor Rudolf.
May I see it?